# 2015-05-21
I'm working on implementing a simple caching strategy and I'm trying to work out the best strategy for doing cache invalidation when deploying a new version of a model.  It seems like a model should know it's version.  I wonder if version should be the UTC timestamp at which a model was generated.  Redis can handle a simple set of types, so we could save space and potentially improve performance by storing it as an INT rather than a string.  The problem with version numbers is that they don't order the way we'd like.  E.g.:

    >>> "1.9.0" > "1.25.0"
    True

OK.  Let me list the options:

* UTC timestamp of model generation (in revscoring.ScorerModel)
  * Pros:
    * No need to remember to update the version name when generating a new model
    * Trivial ordering (assuming we can understand it as a number)
    * We should probably capture this either way
    * A model file can be loaded and queried about its version
  * Cons:
    * Poor control over when the model should be considered "updated" and cache invalidated
    * UTC timestamp would lacks semantic meaning

* Manually typed semantic version string (in revscoring.ScorerModel)
  * Pros:
    * Manual control of when model should be considered updated
    * A model file can be loaded and queried about its version
    * Can (and should) contain semantic meaning
    * We should probably capture something like this anyway
  * Cons:
    * Ordering is non-trivial
    * Must consider when to update the version string.
  * Notes:
    * Can overcome ordering issues with discipline

* Incorporate into model's name (specified in ores config file)
  * Pros: 
    * Quick and dirty
    * Order-ability is up to the user
    * Would not require a pair-key
  * Cons
    * Quick and dirty
    * Order-ability is up to the user
    * Not queryable

* Derive from a field in ores config file
 * Pros and cons the same as above with addition con:
  * Easy to accidentally not update when deploying a new model

So I think that I like the manually typed semantic string the best.  I imagine something like:

    cat some_dataset.tsv | revscoring train_text <some model> --name=damaging --version=0.0.1

If a --version is not specified, then the default can be set to "development_<timestamp>".

I think that this is OK.  I want to file for future work some ideas though.

* One should be able to attach general metadata to a model.  Key-value pairs should be fine.  
* Right now, train_test assumes that it will get a classpath to an *instance* of ScorerModel.  This is awkward because I'm going to need to provide some setters to add a name and version (and eventually general metadata later).  This stuff should be added during construction.  You shouldn't be able to get a model without a name and version should be explicitly set to a default value when not provided.  Right now, I'll need to check that a name/version has been set before train() is called.  That's complex and silly.  
